perl5/two-fer: Create mentoring.md (#1941)
exercism/website-copy: tracks/perl5/two-fer/mentoring.md

# Mentoring

This is a great opportunity to prepare for the track with attention to style conventions.
This is currently the first reviewed problem on the Python track, and serves to
make sure the student understands unit testing and Test Driven Design.

## Reasonable Solutions

```perl
package TwoFer;
use strict;
use warnings;
use Exporter 'import';
our @EXPORT_OK = qw(two_fer);
sub two_fer {
    my $name = shift || "you";
    return "One for $name, one for me.";
}
1;
```

```perl
package TwoFer;
use strict;
use warnings;
use Exporter 'import';
our @EXPORT_OK = qw(two_fer);
sub two_fer {
    return "One for " . (shift || "you") . ", one for me.";
}
1;
```

```perl
package TwoFer;
use strict;
use warnings;
use Exporter 'import';
our @EXPORT_OK = qw(two_fer);
use experimental qw(signatures);
sub two_fer ($name = 'you') {
    return "One for $name, one for me.";
}

> 1;```

Reviewer: The ending fence mark needs to be on the next line.

> ## Common Suggestions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common Suggestions

```

Blank line after heading, and a blank line around the "different" things.  It helps to denote paragraphs and should exist around code blocks, lists, etc.

- Suggest using a default value instead of any form of conditionals.

> - If the student is using perl 5.2>, suggest using the `experimentals` module but make them aware that they're unlikely to find that particular patter in the wild.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the student is using Perl 5.2 or newer, suggest using the `experimentals` module but make them aware that they are unlikely to find that particular pattern in the wild.
```

Capitalize the name Perl when indicating the name of the language, use `code_format` when using the name of the executable.

Also, missing an "n" in what I assume to be meant as "pattern".

- If the student is using perl <5.2, suggest upgrading to get new features - but, again, make them aware that not every situation they might walk into is going to be running the latest version
- Some people need help with running the tests.
- Check indentation.

> - Printing vs. returning
> ## Talking Points
> - Default values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Printing vs. returning

## Talking Points

- Default values
```

- String interpolation
- Style preferences. This exercise is a good opportunity to talk about style conventions like indentation, parameter parenthesis in method declarations (if using `experimental`) and removing redundant comments.
  Given the place in the curriculum it may be worth not going too deep and to not address points that are controversial or personal preference.
- Unit Tests. For some students this will be an introduction to the notion of unit tests.

>   Make the case that these allow them to be productive while engaging with the problem.
> ## Mentoring Notes
> A friendly standard answer about how this can be done in one line, and a 'hint: use a different default value' to get rid of the conditionals, will be all you need for maybe 90% of the submissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Make the case that these allow them to be productive while engaging with the problem.
  
## Mentoring Notes

A friendly standard answer about how this can be done in one line, and a 'hint: use a different default value' to get rid of the conditionals, will be all you need for maybe 90% of the submissions.
```

White space (in the form of a blank line) around the things.  Allows for visually differentiating while skimming to find, and easier reading.

>   Make the case that these allow them to be productive while engaging with the problem.
> ## Mentoring Notes
> A friendly standard answer about how this can be done in one line, and a 'hint: use a different default value' to get rid of the conditionals, will be all you need for maybe 90% of the submissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Make the case that these allow them to be productive while engaging with the problem.
  
## Mentoring Notes

A friendly standard answer about how this can be done in one line, and a 'hint: use a different default value' to get rid of the conditionals, will be all you need for maybe 90% of the submissions.
```

For another 5% of the submissions you will need to go into detailed instructions.
You might start with some questions:
Do they know how to run the tests?
Some users may have trouble running pytest due to path issues.
Get them to paste you any error messages in another iteration (and remind them they can do as many iterations as they want!!) then talk them

> ```perl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

> Get them to paste you any error messages in another iteration (and remind them they can do as many iterations as they want!!) then talk them
> ```perl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get them to paste any error messages in the comments of the iteration (and remind them they can do as many iterations as they want!) then talk them to them about the messages.

```perl
```

>      $ cd path/to/dir/
>      prove .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ cd path/to/dir/
prove .
```

```

or 

> ```perl
>     $cd path/to/dir
>     prove -v .
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
$cd path/to/dir
prove -v .
```
```

For a bit more information.

Do they understand what the tests tell them? Importantly, do they understand how the information is getting fed to them via `__DATA__`? They're going to need to understand that, and JSON itself, before they can totally understand what's happening.

### Editing the Tests

You will see students who modify the tests to get them to pass.
You should explain the function and importance of the tests.

### Test Driven Thinking

> The submission below passes all the tests, but misses the point.

Reviewer: It may miss a point, but I would state instead that it is very rigid, there is no room for anyone else, no flexibility.  In your own words, but really, "the point" for some is to pass the tests, and that is a valid point.  Instead, I would indicate the problem, rather than the idea of "a point" that is not expressed.

  -  Given the place in the curriculum it may be worth not going too deep and to not address points that are controversial or personal preference.
- Unit Tests. For some students this will be an introduction to the notion of unit tests.
  -  Make the case that these allow them to be productive while engaging with the problem.

## Mentoring Notes

A friendly standard answer about how this can be done in one line, and a 'hint: use a different default value' to get rid of the conditionals, will be all you need for maybe 90% of the submissions.
For another 5% of the submissions you will need to go into detailed instructions.
You might start with some questions:
Do they know how to run the tests?
Some users may have trouble running pytest due to path issues.
Get them to paste you any error messages in another iteration (and remind them they can do as many iterations as they want!!) then talk them through

```shell
$ cd path/to/dir/
prove .

or 

```shell
$cd path/to/dir
prove -v .
```

> For a bit more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a bit more information:
```

# Mentoring

This is a great opportunity to prepare for the track with attention to style conventions.
This is currently the first reviewed problem on the Perl track, and serves to
make sure the student understands unit testing and Test Driven Design.

## Reasonable Solutions

```perl
package TwoFer;
use strict;
use warnings;
use Exporter 'import';
our @EXPORT_OK = qw(two_fer);
sub two_fer {
    my $name = shift || "you";
    return "One for $name, one for me.";
}
1;
```

```perl
package TwoFer;
use strict;
use warnings;
use Exporter 'import';
our @EXPORT_OK = qw(two_fer);
sub two_fer {
    return "One for " . (shift || "you") . ", one for me.";
}
1;
```

```perl
package TwoFer;
use strict;
use warnings;
use Exporter 'import';
our @EXPORT_OK = qw(two_fer);
use experimental qw(signatures);
sub two_fer ($name = 'you') {
    return "One for $name, one for me.";
}
1;
```
But remember TMTOWDI - There's More Than One Way To Do It!

## Common Suggestions

- Suggest using a default value instead of any form of conditionals.

> - If the student is using Perl 5.2 or newer, suggest using the `experimentals` module but make them aware that they're unlikely to find that particular pattern in the wild.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the student is using Perl 5.2 or newer, suggest using the `experimentals` module but make them aware that they are unlikely to find that particular pattern in the wild.
```

Reviewer: If this is early in the track, are we suggesting using `experimentals` module actively?  Should it be that we don't mention it until later in the track, or if they use it?  If it is not commonly used, then it seems like an "intermediate" style comment to make, otherwise.

- If the student is using Perl older than 5.2, suggest upgrading to get new features - but, again, make them aware that not every situation they might walk into is going to be running the latest version.
- Some people need help with running the tests.
- Check indentation.

> - Printing vs. returning.

Reviewer: printing or output?  I don't remember the terms in Perl  (active circa 2000, so been a while) but output can go to standard error or standard out or another file, or of course it can go to a printer.  So should we use "print" or should we use "output" here?

```suggestion
- Output vs. return.
```

Author: people still use print, but you redirect it via &2> from the cli or you pick STDERR and friends. Defnitely stick with `print`, imo. Although, perl being perl, it probably doesn't make terribly much difference! Nobody knows what anyone means!

Reviewer: That is true. lol

The return from the function and the output from that function may be two different things, and "printing" is a third thing.  So I want to make sure that it is clear what is being said, because learning is hard when you have to make the distinction of "What do they really mean with this word?  Are they speaking strictly, or in the more general sense they really mean the other thing this is commonly used for?"

## Talking Points

- Default values
- String interpolation

> - Style preferences. This exercise is a good opportunity to talk about style conventions like indentation, parameter parenthesis in method declarations (if using `experimental`) and removing redundant comments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Style preferences. This exercise is a good opportunity to talk about style conventions like indentation, parameter parenthesis in method declarations (if using `experimental`) and removing redundant and/or stale comments.
```

>   Given the place in the curriculum it may be worth not going too deep and to not address points that are controversial or personal preference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -  Given the place in the curriculum it may be worth not going too deep and to not address points that are controversial or personal preference.
```

I think because of the indentation that it is meant that this is  a subpoint on the bullet.

> - Unit Tests. For some students this will be an introduction to the notion of unit tests.
>   Make the case that these allow them to be productive while engaging with the problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unit Tests. For some students this will be an introduction to the notion of unit tests.
  -  Make the case that these allow them to be productive while engaging with the problem.
```

I think because of the indentation that it is meant that this is  a subpoint on the bullet.

## Mentoring Notes

A friendly standard answer about how this can be done in one line, and a 'hint: use a different default value' to get rid of the conditionals, will be all you need for maybe 90% of the submissions.
For another 5% of the submissions you will need to go into detailed instructions.
You might start with some questions:
Do they know how to run the tests?
Some users may have trouble running pytest due to path issues.
Get them to paste you any error messages in another iteration (and remind them they can do as many iterations as they want!!) then talk them through

> ```shell
>     $ cd path/to/dir/
>     prove .
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
$ cd path/to/dir/
prove .
```
```

or 

> ```shell
>     $cd path/to/dir
>     prove -v .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
$cd path/to/dir
prove -v .
```
